One of the most interesting sub plots of
this whole world is the talent wars. A
cool idea is that as these things get
better, maybe we begin to automate some
of the research function that people
formally would have played. Do you see a
world where like we're squeezing down
the fewer and fewer number of people
that really matter that will have all
the impact on where we go in terms of
like net new research and that means
that all this crazy spending that's
happening at Meta or elsewhere makes a
lot of sense that like maybe even those
numbers should be higher or something
like this. I think it's like
tremendously hilarious that people are
like, "Oh my god, this person is getting
paid a billion dollars." It is
infeasible. It's like, "How could this
person possibly be worth that much?"
Well, they're running the experiment
ments on chips that cost you know, a
hundred billion dollars.
If every wasted experiment they do, if
they just used like a third of the
compute and and their ideas and their
impact on it wasted the compute was an
idea that was already done or like, you
know, like
there's so much wasted compute. I'll say
I call it wasted. It's trying stuff and
failing.
But like none of us know what to try and
what not to try. And these things are so
complicated. There's like a group of
people just trying different stuff on
the existing data. How do you mix it?
What order do you feed it into the
model? Um, how do you filter it? Like
what's the architecture? There's
different people working on long
context. There's different people
working on every single aspect of the
model
that like if you just make them a little
bit more efficient that they come up
with the idea that's 5% more efficient.
Well, fantastic. I just saved not only
5% of my compute time training time. I
also save 5% across my entire inference
fleet.
And then
I do it again and again and again and
again because we're so far away from
like these models being anywhere near as
efficient as a human brain. And we know
it can at least get as efficient as us.
Maybe the compute substrate isn't the
same, but like whatever, right? Adding
more people to the problem doesn't make
it faster because there's so many things
you're trying. You run these
experiments, you learn something, and
then you implement it. You tweak the
knobs in these ways in a hundred
different ways, and then you see the
trend line and you're like, "Oh, so
actually I should tweak it this way.
Let's implement that, right?" There's so
much like gut feel, there's so much like
reading data, understanding implement
re-implementing it into these things
that if you add people, you're going to
slow it down. In a sense, a lot of like
problems before they did the super
intelligence thing was that they just
had too many people that weren't led by
leadership that was amazing. Um, and
they had like a lot of failed
experiments and wasted time doing things
that didn't matter. There's a tweet from
one of my friends uh at OpenAI. Um, he's
pretty famous on Twitter. His name is
Rune. He's like, "I get visibly
viscerally angry every time I think
about how many H100s Meta is wasting."
It's such a funny tweet because it's
like, "Well, yeah, they're wasting a ton
of compute." They were, you know, maybe
they still are, but you know, like and
everyone's wasting compute, right?
OpenAI is wasting tons of compute cuz,
you know, what's the Pareto optimal
model architecture? Who knows? Another
thing I saw Rune say recently which was
so interesting was uh why don't we just
go make even more ridiculous offers
around the people that have process
knowledge for things that we want here
in the US in other countries. Like why
don't we if we're getting pretty good at
the Arizona, you know, fab that we've
built and we we think that we can sort
of extract the process knowledge from
the people, why don't we like go acquire
like all the best people in Shenzhen or
all the best people in like other places
in the world? Do you think it starts to
escalate to that level like so much is
dependent on the process knowledge of a
relatively small group of people and
that and the war the talent war should
actually be it shouldn't be Meta and
OpenAI. It should be like the US maybe
through Meta and OpenAI and like people
from all over the world. Like do you
think it starts to get that extreme and
and should it? That's almost a function
of why like Intel has has fallen off a
lot, right? It's like um, you have all
these geniuses in, you know, you know,
nano chemistry and PhDs and all these
like random like, you know, like things
whether it be chemistry, physics. All
these like incredibly smart people but
there's a whole class of incredibly
smart people that never went that way
cuz they're like, "Oh, those guys are
making like 200k."
Like why would I do that? I'm going to
go I'm going to go to Google and make
800k. And now I'm going to go to OpenAI
and make 10 mil or now I'm going to go
to Meta and go make 100 mil, right? Like
any like smart 18-year-old is going to
be like, "Fuck that. I'm doing this."
Right? Why do the smartest doctors and I
don't mean to say the smartest doctors
in a general sense, but there's skewed
really smart population of doctors that
want to be dermatologists and
anesthesiologists. It's like, "Is that
the most valuable thing for them to do?"
No, but those are the two professions
that give you like good working hours
and great pay.
Not to say that, you know, the general
doctor is not smart as them, but if you
took the population of general like
family doctors like just the random
doctor and you took the population of
dermatologists the newest coming out of
school, the ones that are being
dermatologists and anesthesiologists are
way smarter or at least were scored
better, were able to get into the field
that was coveted. And so, yeah, talent
war is like it it is truly like, you
know, we've sort of been through this
process of like
capital has, you know, it's it's always
been human human capital and and capital
goods sort of those two vying off of
each other. And for a long time with
mechanization, industrialization, we had
the human capital decreasing as the
industrial capital increased. Um, and
sort of that got to a point where
especially in the 70s it really started
to tank as the ability to globalize and
and all these things started to really
hit the US and and that's why you have
all the lot of the like population level
dynamics and income inequality that we
have today that like is very bad for the
psyche of the US and and the stability
of it. But then you have now you now
have like we're in such a age of like
well, actually like manufacturing things
is pretty commodity. Like most of the
value doesn't come from the
manufacturing of it. It comes from
the creation of the idea. One thing
Jensen told me which I thought was like
amazing, right? He's like, you know,
Dylan, he's like, "The reason America's
rich, like people have it all wrong. The
reason we're rich is because we've
exported all the labor, but we've kept
all the value." And that's what Nvidia
does, right? They've exported the labor
of making their chips. And Apple, right?
Everyone. It's it's done in Asia. Um,
and those those companies make money.
Not as much money as Nvidia and Apple.
Right. All the gross profits are going
to them. Um, and then they're either
reinvesting it or buying back stock or
whatever. However they allocate the
capital is like, you know, different
concern. If like as you said the process
knowledge is so valuable, why aren't we
why aren't we doing this? That's that's
a that's a that's a that's a great idea.
Rune's idea, not mine.
>> Yeah, I know. I mean, I think I think
the challenge is
how to choose people is really
difficult. So, for some roles
someone who can talk the talk, they're
great, right? Like people just
automatically assume they're great
because they can talk the talk. But you
know how many people suck at talking and
are really freaking good at doing, yeah.
Yeah, but then you don't know. You don't
know, right? Cuz it's like, well, they
but then there's people who talk about
being able to do better than the person
who's doing and like and then like, you
know, these tests are never as good,
right? Like so work trials is like, "How
do you select?" Um, and this was a big
challenge for
um, so some of the criticisms are like,
"They didn't get all of the best people.
They actually got a lot of like bad
people." It's like the cope from like
OpenAI and Anthropic and, you know,
these kinds of companies are like, "No,
no, no, they didn't get our best
people." This is Sam said, right? He's
like, "They didn't get our best people.
It's okay." Meanwhile, he did have to do
counter offers internally, right? So,
it's like, you know, um, so so as far as
the process knowledge, I think I think
the ML researchers are an extreme
of how much value one can do. But my
favorite analogy that I came up with
recently is that ML research is the
exact same as semiconductor
manufacturing. You know, there's a ton
of jobs in in in semiconductor
manufacturing that don't exist in ML
research, but it is a ton of tune a
thousand different knobs, right?
Oh, you put the wafer in this tool,
you're going to change the pressure of
the chamber when you're doing the
deposition or you're going to change the
mix of the chemicals flowing in, which
chemicals you're putting in, right? Like
what what speed you do it at? Do you do
it for 30 minutes? Do you do it for 31
minutes? Do you do it for, you know,
obviously it splices way down. There's
so many knobs on every single tool
and you have a thousand plus.
>> Input and process knobs. Right. Process
knobs on each tool plus it's like the
sequence of them all. And and so like
you frankly cannot test everything,
right? It's impossible. It's it's too
large of a search space. Just like just
like designing a chip is too large of a
search space. You have a hundred
trillion transistors. How are you going
to possibly try every single thing?
Impossible, right? You just have to have
enough intuition like pick that point,
pick that point, pick that point, see
the data. Oh, okay. I think the answer
is here, right? And then just yellow,
right? Um, and and, you know, obviously
once you know you think the answer is
here, you test here. You're like, "Okay,
here." But like a different person might
have seen these three and then said,
"Okay, the answer is actually here, not
here." And like the data is like fuzzy.
It's like somewhere in the center, but
like, you know, it's like this this
whole like idea of like ML research is
you spend a lot of time on compute
training doing
what effectively were useless things
besides teaching yourself what's the
right thing to do and what's the wrong
thing to do. And and semiconductor
manufacturing is the same way. And
actually all process manufacturing is
the same way if you're iterating super
fast and you're trying to get better and
better and better or you're optimizing a
process on a chemistry or whatever it
is. You you try, you fail, you learn,
you do. In semiconductor manufacturing
maybe it's just running tens of
thousands of wafers. And so your R&D
cost of, you know, an of an Intel and
and or or your your cost of your, you
know, main fab that is running the R&D
is very very high and it's producing
zero economic value besides that it's
teaching you how to do the next node
which then you can deploy at volume and
that is like like what actually makes
the money.
[Music]